---
layout: post
title: "PubSubHubbub for Everybody"
categories: [pubsubhubbub, API, publishers]
author_name: Julien
author_uri: http://twitter.com/julien51
author_email_md5: b30ce50678f0e934eaa6697425c59dd7
---

Today is an exciting day! We're are at the "ReadWriteWeb Real-time summit":http://www.readwriteweb.com/summit/. If you're here, come and ping us, "I":http://twitter.com/julien51 wear a yellow sweatshirt.

It's also exciting because we're launching a "new version of our website":http://superfeedr.com with many many improvements over the previous iteration. I'd like to thank my friend "Beau":http://beausmith.com/ for his great help, as well as "David":http://www.davidrecordon.com/. We're perfectly aware that _we have a long way to go_, but we're _moving toward the destination_.

If you go check this new iteration, you'll immediately notice the shiny orange buttons. The "subscriber":http://superfeedr.com/subscriber part is nothing new, however, the "publisher":http://superfeedr.com/publisher part is brand new!

We're announcing today that Superfeedr now offers *white-label hubs*. What is that? If you read this blog, you know how crucial it is to *engage your content consumers with real-time data*, but building a hub is not the most easy thing to do. "Again":http://blog.superfeedr.com/gospel/something-stupid, we've done that for you, so that you don't have too.

We're introducing to options : 

* *A free version*, where your app's hub is accessible at http://appname.superfeedr.com and where you basically just need to add the 'discovery' tag to your feeds. Check out our "Wordpress":http://wordpress.superfeedr.com/ and "Identica":http://identica.superfeedr.com/ hubs.

* *A _for profit_ version*, where you can use your own domain, where the subscribers will not even know that this service is provided by superfeedr.

We're very excited about that, and we already started working with several great teams to integrate hubs into their apps. What do you think?

PS: As I write this, I see that our blog's layout is not as shinny as I'd wanted :/ I am working on that...