---
layout: post
title: A Social Network?
categories: [pubsubhubbub, xmpp, open, social]
author_name: Julien
author_uri: http://twitter.com/julien51
author_email_md5: b30ce50678f0e934eaa6697425c59dd7
---

There are *two* steps to* open-data epiphany* : support the "OpenStack":http://openstack.blogspot.com/ for your users data is the first step. I would argue though that this is not enough : if I tell you that all your data is available for you (or apps that want to get it - with your authorization -) to take it, it's great, but it's less than ideal if you have data in tens of different apps.

_It's like putting a treasure on Mars and tell you : hey, if you get there, it's yours, if you can come and get it_

The second step is to actually tell you : *your data is available for you (or these apps), and I will push it to you (them)*, so it's available in *theory and in practice*. And that is what protocols like "PubSubHubbub":http://superfeedr.com/documentation#pubsubhubbub and "XMPP":http://onesocialweb.org/ are for : not only the data is available, but it's sent away.

It's pretty _common to oppose openness and business_. A lot of services see openness as a threat to their growth/profitability, and generally will see openness and general wellness of their business as incompatible. *This is wrong, I believe that sending data away is a an amazing driver for growth*.

Here is a simple use case. Let's say I plug "Gowalla":http://gowalla.com/ into my "Google profile":http://www.google.com/profiles. Everytime I check in somewhere, it will show up in Google Buzz. My google buzz friends will see this, and may even sign-in for Gowalla if they like what they see. 

My point is that, by letting your users 'own' their data, you will turn them into evangelists for your service. If I like what I do with your social app (be it "posting pictures":http://www.flickr.com/, "watching videos":http://www.youtube.com/, "sharing links":http://delicious.com/), then, please, let me show it to my friends, let me leave a footprint of this activity anywhere on the web. *The more (legit!) data you send away, the more users will come.*

This does not mean that you have to send any information without my consent, but please, at least ask me if I want to share my information and if I say yes, let me do it.

Time for a shameless plug: "Superfeedr hosts hubs":http://superfeedr.com/publisher, we can host one for you. If you want to give a shot at opening your data, please, get in touch!









