---
layout: post
title: Real-time search
categories: [meta, real-time, search, foo]
author_name: Julien
author_uri: http://twitter.com/julien51
author_email_md5: b30ce50678f0e934eaa6697425c59dd7
---

Yes, I am pissed off I am not at "Foo Camp":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foo_Camp, but I am working to be there next year, bear with me. I really wish I could be there because I think we're making the term "real-time web" as the new "web 2.0" : a "brand as Tom calls it":http://twitter.com/plasticbagUK/status/3638809764. _"Blahblah is doing real-time"__, __"Blihblih has a real-time approach"__... And this is bad : when words lose their meaning, concepts get over-looked. *This is not just playing on words*.

"Real-time is not instantaneity":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real-time_computing. *Real-time means time-constrained*. That's it. That constraint can of course be low (up to the second if you want, even).

Based on that, a real-time search engine would be a search engine that would be able to *guarantee that the results of your query happened within an X seconds/minutes/hours/days*. 

If I search for "'Foo' on twitter":http://search.twitter.com/search?q=foo, Twitter tells me that the constraint is 'now' (_See what's happening — right now._), I am guaranteed that the results have been posted 'now' : I'll leave the now definition to Twitter :D.

By studying a query over different time-constraints (within 1 year, 1 month, 1 day, 1 hour), we can probably get very interesting results : maybe something like the log of Google's "Database of Intentions":http://battellemedia.com/archives/000063.php. Applied to Twitter, that would allow us to _learn a lot on how we communicate, react to "information" and propagate it, or even correlation between things people are talking about_.

Remember when Google "announced they could predict":http://www.google.org/flutrends/ the "flu trend" better than the CDC? Well, my bet is that *Twitter can do that even better than Google*, and for maybe less "common" things. A real-time search on "heading":http://search.twitter.com/search?q=heading into Twitter, coupled with a hint of geo-localisation and a pinch of semantic analysis would probably be quite powerful to know (and predict) what the traffic looked like at a given place, on a given time.

Want to predict the "economy"? Track down keywords like "laid off/let go", "hired", "profit", "loss", "chapter 11"...