---
layout: post
title: User Test Driven Development
categories: [schema, test, mapping]
author_name: Julien
author_uri: http://twitter.com/julien51
author_email_md5: b30ce50678f0e934eaa6697425c59dd7
---

We are *strong believer* of "Test Driven Development":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development. It's a very powerful approach that allows you to write tests before actually writing code. (These tests are actually specifications). That is how we created our parsers : we selected random feeds on the web, and decided what _should_ be the mapping between their data and our "standard Atom schema":http://blog.superfeedr.com/Atom/schema/a-better-schema/. Then, we wrote the code to actually perform the mapping.

Unfortunately, the web *isn't* standard (that's actually one of the problems we tackle!), so there are probably feeds out there for which the mapping that we've identified isn't what you would expect us to do. You can help us improve our mapping to fit your needs.

In our test suites we have YAML files representing these mappings and their corresponding XML files. Then, we run it by comparing the parsed document to the YAML mappings.

Here is and XML feed :
<script src="http://gist.github.com/138121.js"></script>

Here is a example of mapping :
<script src="http://gist.github.com/138122.js"></script>

If you have identified a feed that you think we're not parsing correctly, please, send us a this feed.xml file, along with the corresponding specification yaml file. We will then *fix our code so that we extract the right info from your file*.

You can use this "template":http://gist.github.com/138123 for the mapping file.