---
layout: post
title: "Distributed and Federated Social Networks"
categories: [social-networks, federation, pubsubhubbub, XMPP]
author_name: Julien
author_uri: http://twitter.com/julien51
author_email_md5: b30ce50678f0e934eaa6697425c59dd7
---

There "is":http://staynalive.com/articles/2009/12/19/developers-its-time-to-open-up-twitters-api/ "a lot":http://code-bear.com/bearlog/2009/12/20/responding-to-jesses-call-to-open-twitters-api/ of debate around on "OpenTwitter":http://groups.google.com/group/opentwitter, "OpenFriendFeed":http://bit.ly/4voQKK "OpenFacebook":http://bit.ly/8J9SIv.  these days. The "de-facto standard":http://www.avc.com/a_vc/2009/12/open-apis-and-open-standards.html which is now Twitter's API is a good news. Yet, social Networks have 2 big features : *publish content* (it seems that Twitter's API is the reference now), and *consume content* from your friends. This second part seems much harder and I think *PubSubHubbub* and *XMPP* can provide this API.

Whatever the social network, user profiles usually have a link (Atom or RSS) which represents a user's stream of activities. Whether it's "Flickr":http://www.flickr.com/photos/juliengenestoux, "Delicious":http://delicious.com/julien51, "Twitter":http://twitter.com/julien51, or even your blog (yes, it's a social network in a way), _all our online activities are represented as feeds_. 

The next step is to make these feeds "real-time" so that the consuming applications shouldn't need to poll thousands of feeds or services. _To consume my friends information, I shouldn't even need to be part of the network on which they publish_. *PubSubHubbub enables that*.

I like consuming my friend's feed via Facebook. Yet, a lot of my friend's content is not there : their tweets, the pictures they post on Flickr, etc... and some of my friends are not even on Facebook.

I wish somebody ("Tweetdeck":http://tweetdeck.com/, "Seesmic":http://seesmic.com/, "Brizzly":http://brizzly.com/... can you hear me?) would have a *built-in PubSubHubbub subscriber*. Then they would allow me to paste one of my friend's profile page on "Last.fm":http://www.last.fm/user/julien51 or Foursquare (or allow me to select directly pages on specific services). From that page, they would _auto-discover the feed_, and _then its hub and subscribe to it_. Finally, when my friends update their social network (provided that this one uses PubSubHubbub to make its feeds real-time, but "we can help":http://superfeedr.com/publisher), I would receive instantly the update into my *Social Network consuming app*. 

When publishing my content, I shouldn't have to publish it on 36 different services just to make sure all my friends will get it. It should go wherever my friends will consume it!

