---
layout: post
title: Reality checked
categories: [meta]
author_name: Julien
author_uri: http://twitter.com/julien51
author_email_md5: julien.genestoux@gmail.com
---

A lot of people have asked us why we built "Superfeedr":http://superfeedr.com or what is the relationship to "Notifixious":http://notifixio.us. Here are a few hints.

A little over a year we launched Notifixious. The idea behind it was to allow any internet user to _receive real-time updates from his favorite websites_. We would send these updates either by email, SMS or Instant Messaging. For example, a user might subscribe to a blog to receive the last updates, or to a newspaper site. A user could also subscribe to a "Craigslist search":http://sfbay.craigslist.org/apa/ to be the first to know about a new place to move in, or to "Simply Hired":http://notifixio.us/simplyhired to get the last jobs in his field of expertise.

Earlier this year, we did *an extensive analysis of our user base* and found out 2 patterns.

# About *60% of our users would select email* to receive their notifications. On average they would subscribe to *1 single website* and most of the time it was a blog. These users have clearly been acquired through our "widget":http://notifixio.us/sources/widgets. We were very disappointed : email is not real-time and the email user-experience is usually bad : spam, phishing... etc. We asked those people why they chose email and the answer was clear : they are *scared by information overload* and have *no idea how to deal with an incoming stream* of notifications which is very _stressful_, because they *know* they wanted to receive these notifications. 
# A *dozen of our users* had, on the other hand, subscribed to more than 500 feeds. Oddly enough they were *all using our XMPP api or a jabber account* to receive these notifications. This behavior was very interesting compared to the first group. We contacted most of them and understood that they were actually using *notifixious as a middleware* for their own application or service. In a nutshell, they were using Notifixious as an on-demand feed parsing service. That was a very insightful discovery since *some of them even said they would pay* for our service. The idea to extract "Superfeedr":http://superfeedr.com out of Notifixious was born.

We still haven't identified how to deal with the first group, except that *real-time services will need to find a way to avoid that information overload* (or at least the sensation of it). However, by observing and understanding the behavior of a -very- small set of users, we've been able to identify some of the value of our service.

We even believe that this very small subset of our user base carried the biggest of the value our service provided. By continuously looping the feedback with this small user base, we think we can provide a great service!