---
layout: post
title: The little lie about Real-time Data
categories: [real-time, lie]
author_name: Julien
author_uri: http://twitter.com/julien51
author_email_md5: b30ce50678f0e934eaa6697425c59dd7
---

It is very exciting to see all the jazz about *real-time data* being available. It is however a little disappointing that the RSS vs. Atom war is starting again through the _PubSubHubbub vs. RssCloud conflict_ (read "Techcrunch's post":http://www.techcrunch.com/2009/09/09/rsscloud-vs-pubsubhubbub-why-the-fat-pings-win/ about that). "Wordpress said they will adopt RssCloud":http://en.blog.wordpress.com/2009/09/07/rss-in-the-clouds/, while "Google massively adopted PubSubHubbub":http://googlecode.blogspot.com/2009/08/towards-programmable-web-pubsubhubbub.html and "SixApart":http://sixapart.com showed strong interest for the latter.

The only little lie about that is that _almost all of the data that you can access through these hubs or clouds, was actually already available through other Real-time_ (or close to real-time) means. SixApart has had an *AtomStream* for years, Google implemented the *changes.xml syntax* a few years ago and Wordpress announced last year that they had an *XMPP stream* with all the blog posts and comments.

Again, don't get me wrong : this is really exciting that from having 1 technology for each provider we now have -almost- the same protocols across the board, but I think that proves also why we need services like Superfeedr : a huge part of the content that is published daily is not being pushed to anywhere.

Again, pushing your content to reduce the "polling" load makes sense, but we strongly believe that *the vast majority of the data out there will probably never be pushed* to any hub of cloud, and that's precisely where Superfeedr is so useful!



