---
layout: post
title: "10 Feed Publishing Best Practices"
categories: [Feeds, RSS, Atom, Best Practice]
author_name: Julien
author_uri: http://twitter.com/julien51
author_email_md5: b30ce50678f0e934eaa6697425c59dd7
---

Working with publishers and polling hundreds of thousands of feed has taught us a few lessons and best practices for people who publish RSS or Atom feeds. You might disagree with some of them, so please, let us know in the comments.

I want to emphasize that these best practices are _technical_, not business related.

# *Don't use RSS and ATOM*. There is no good feed parser that doesn't accept both. Providing one will make subscribers life much easier :)
# Make sure your feeds are *valid*.
# Use *unique identifiers* for entries : @<guid>@ in RSS and @<id>@ in ATOM
# *Don't use feed caching* if you can't explicitly expire the cache. In other words, don't use time based caches. _Corollary : use Feedburner only if you use pingshot_.
# Make sure your *date format is valid* : @ISO8601@ is the one you should choose.
# Add the feeds *discovery* in your HTML pages. Most modern browsers (Chrome : WTF?!) will be able to detect that and show your visitors that the page references a feed. It will also help feed readers to auto-extract feeds.
# Make sure you're *RESTful* in your feeds discovery. If you're in a resource page, show feeds that relate to that resource. Make sure a given feed is accessible at a given url only.
# Use the "de-facto" standard in terms of *calendar : Roman*. The subscribing app may convert to other calendar, based on the user's settings.
# Keep the *feed urls simple*. Do some URL rewriting.
# It's ok to have only @<summary>@ instead of the full @<content>@ (it's a business decision) : but don't show it as full content if it's just a summary.
# *Special Bonus* : publish feeds in realtime. "We can help":http://superfeedr.com/publisher.

Thoughts?
