---
layout: post
title: "Scaling Superfeedr"
categories: [Superfeedr, lateness, scaling]
author_name: Julien
author_uri: http://twitter.com/julien51
author_email_md5: b30ce50678f0e934eaa6697425c59dd7
---

I'd like to start this post by *wishing everybody a wonderful 2010 year, and a great 2nd decade of this millennium*.

We will remember these early days are pretty hectic, here at Superfeedr. As a matter of facts _our users keep feeding us with more and more feeds_ (+20% in a week!). It's great, except that it *makes little issues much bigger*. And we're currently fighting hard (like 16hours a day) to improve our scheduling algorithm.

The difficulty that we have is that we need to deal with a lot of pings, telling us that a given feed has been updated. Technically, at the moment when we receive a ping, we need to fetch the feed and push that to our subscribers, which means that _we're already late to deal with this feed_.

So, at any time, we know _how many feeds are late_. Also, we need to fetch all of our feeds at least every 15 minutes, which roughly tells us _how late we are on average for each feed_.

Right now, we're at about 10% of late feeds, which means that, on average, we're 1.5 minutes late on pings. Yes, it's much higher than acceptable and we're working on that - but it reached 50% earlier today :( -

Contrary to many services out there, Superfeedr has to scale "internally". Most of web apps and web services usually work like this :
# A user sends a query
# the application processes that query
# the application returns the response.

It's not always easy to scale all the time, but at least *it's a fairly known science*. Adding cache to skip the 2nd step is the most obvious thing and it can do miracles :)

Unfortunately for us, that is not how Superfeedr works. Of course, like I mentioned we deal with incoming pings, but we also have to deal with polling for a lot of feeds (even the pinged feeds, as a failover), which means that as opposed to almost every web service out there, *we do not act upon user input*. The good news is that we can probably have a bigger query -> response time. The bad news is that caching[1] is useless!

As a matter of fact, our biggest problem is to *distribute all our data-processing smoothly and evenly across our whole infrastructure* so that we always have a capacity utilization of 100%. And that's what I'll be spending the next hours and days on :)

fn1. And caching is evil for real-time stuff :)